 The  petitioner  alleging  that  a  cheque  issued  by  the  petitioner  on  6th  March  1990  for  an  amount  of  15  rupees,  190  rupees,  65  coin  on  the  syndicate  bank,  was  presented  for  encashment  on  2nd  August  1990  was  dishonoured  on  3rd  August  1390  and  that  though  the  notice  required  under  clause  of  the  proviso  section  138  of  the  negotiable  instruments  act  1881  was  issued.  The  petitioner  failed  to  make  the  payment  within  15  days  of  the  receipt  of  the  notice  and  therefore  the  petitioner  has  committed  an  offence  under  section  138  of  the  act.  Thank  you  for  watching.  According  to  the  petitioner,  the  jet  post  dated  6th  March  1990  was  drawn  on  1st  March  1986  and  since  the  cheque  was  not  presented  within  6  months  from  the  said  date  as  required  under  clause  of  the  Proviso  Section  138  of  the  Act,  no  offence  under  the  said  section  is  disclosed  and  therefore  it  is  necessary  that  the  proceeding  is  postponed.  3.  The  learned  single  judge  before  whom  the  matter  came  up  for  consideration  felt  that  the  matter  has  to  be  considered  by  a  division  bench  since  the  view  taken  in  Parmijit  Singh  P.  N.  C.  Job  8740.  Before  the  Banking,  Public  Financial  Institutions  and  Negotiable  Instruments  Clause  Act  1988  amended  the  Act  also  and  inserted  Chapter  17  containing  Sections  138  to  142  in  the  Act.  Section  138  makes  the  dollar  of  a  cheque  liable  for  penalties  in  case  the  cheque  is  dishonoured  and  payment  is  not  made  after  notice.  As  has  been  noted,  whereas  the  respondent  alleged  that  the  petitioner  has  committed  an  offence  punishable  under  Section  138  of  the  Act,  the  petitioner  maintains  that  though  the  cheque  was  dishonoured,  since  the  conditions  required  under  Section  138  of  the  Act  are  not  satisfied.  No  offence  under  the  said  section  is  made  up.  For  properly  appreciating  the  argument,  it  would  be  necessary  to  read  Section  138  of  the  Act.  Thank  you.  Section  138  reads,  138,  Dishonor  of  check  for  insufficiency,  etc.,  of  funds  in  the  account,  where  any  check  drawn  by  a  person  on  an  account  maintained  by  him  with  a  banker  for  payment  of  any  amount  of  money  to  another  person  from  out  of  that  account  for  the  discharge,  in  whole  or  in  part,  of  any  debt  or  other  liability,  is  returned  by  the  bank  unpaid.  138  reads,  138,  Dishonor  of  check  for  insufficiency,  etc.,  of  funds  in  the  account  maintained  by  a  person  on  an  account  maintained  by  a  banker  for  payment  of  any  amount  of  money  to  another  person  from  out  of  that  account  for  the  discharge,  in  whole  or  in  part,  of  any  debt  or  other  liability,  is  returned  by  the  bank  unpaid.  Manoj  K.  Zid  v.  R.  J.  Fernandez  on  20th  June,  1991.  Insufficient  to  honour  the  cheque  or  it  exceeds  the  amount  arranged  to  be  paid  from  that  account  by  an  agreement  made  with  that  bank,  such  person  shall  be  deemed  to  have  committed  an  offence  and  shall,  without  prejudice  to  any  other  provision  of  this  act,  be  punished  with  imprisonment  for  a  term  which  may  extend  to  one  year  or  with  fine  which  may  extend  to  twice  the  amount  of  the  cheque  or  with  both,  provided  that  nothing  contained  in  this  section  shall  apply  unless  the  cheque  has  been  presented  to  the  bank  within  a  period  of  six  months  from  the  date  on  which  it  is  drawn  or  within  the  period  of  its  validity,  whichever  is  earlier. 